.\"	$NetBSD: xfer,v 1.1 2000/06/14 10:34:32 tsutsui Exp $
.
NOTE: NetBSD/news68k \*V does not support any framebuffers (yet) so
you have to use serial console on installation procedure.
.Pp
No matter which installation medium you choose, you'll need to have a
1.44M floppy disk. You'll put the boot floppy image onto this disk,
which contains software to install
.Nx
system.
.Pp
If you are using a UN*X-like system (such as NEWS-OS or other
.Nx
machines) to write the floppy images to disks, you should use the
.Xr dd 1
command to copy the file system image(s)
(.fs file) directly to the raw floppy disk. It is suggested that you
read the
.Xr dd 1
manual page or ask your system administrator to determine the correct
set of arguments to use; it will be slightly different from system to
system, and a comprehensive list of the possibilities is beyond the
scope of this document.
.Pp
If you have some i386 machine which runs
.Tn DOS
and use them to write the floppy image(s) to floppy disk,
you can use the
.Li rawrite
utility, provided in the
.Pa i386/utilities
directory of the
.Nx
distribution. It will write a file system image (.fs file) to a floppy
disk.
.Pp
Though NetBSD/news68k uses the floppy disk to boot for the initial
installation, NetBSD/news68k kernel does not support any
floppy device. Some other machines or systems are still required
to write floppy images even after NetBSD/news68k have been installed.
.Pp
SCSI devices on NWS-12x0 machines are not supported (yet), so they
can only run NetBSD/news68k as diskless. No file transfer is
needed, and all you have to do is to prepare files on the server.
More information about diskless setting can be found at
.Lk http://www.netbsd.org/Documentation/network/netboot/
.Pp
The NEWS
.Tn PROM No Ns s
supports also tape boot and network boot, but NetBSD/news68k does not
support them currently.
.Pp
After the boot floppy is prepared, just type "bo fh" on the PROM prompt
to boot it.
.Pp
Installation is supported from several media types, including:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
NFS partitions
.It
FTP
.It
CD-ROM
.El
.Pp
The steps necessary to prepare the distribution sets
for installation depend on which installation medium you choose.
The steps for the various media are outlined below.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width NFS\ Installation
.
.It Em NFS Installation
Place the NetBSD distribution sets you wish to install into a directory
on an NFS server, and make that directory mountable by the machine
on which you are installing or upgrading NetBSD.  This will probably
require modifying the
.Pa /etc/exports
file on of the NFS server and resetting its mount daemon (mountd).
Both of these actions will probably require superuser
privileges on the server.
.Pp
You will need to know the IP address of your nameserver or of your NFS
server, and, if the server is not on a network directly connected to the
machine on which you're installing or upgrading NetBSD, you need to know
the IP address of the closest router . Finally, you need to know the IP
address of the NetBSD machine itself. The install program will ask you
to provide this information to be able to access the sets via NFS.
.Pp
If you are using a diskless setup to install NetBSD on your machine,
you can take advantage of the fact that the above has already been done
on your machine's server.  So, you can conveniently put the NetBSD file
sets in your machine's root filesystem on the server where the install
program can find them.
.Pp
Once the NFS server is set up properly and you have the information
mentioned above, you can start the actual installation process.
.
.It Em FTP Installation
Determine an FTP site from which you can retrieve the NetBSD
distribution when you're about to install. You will need to know the
IP address of your nameserver or of your ftp site, and, if it's not on
a network directly connected to the machine on which you're installing
or upgrading NetBSD, you need to know the IP address of the closest
router.  Finally, you need to know the IP address of the NetBSD machine
itself. The install program will ask you to provide this information to
be able to access the sets via ftp.
.Pp
Once you have this information, you can proceed to the actual
installation.
.
.It Em CD-ROM Installation
If you are installing from a CD-ROM, the distribution sets are
already in the proper format and no special handling is required.
.El
