	$NetBSD: INSTALL,v 1.2 1997/03/15 20:08:33 ragge Exp $


How to install NetBSD/vax
-------------------------

1.	Device conventions.
	NetBSD standalone system addresses devices like
	'devicename(adapter, controller, unit, partition)'
	Known devicenames are:
		mt  -  MSCP tape. (TK50, TU81, ...)
		ts  -  TSV05/TS11 tape.
		ra  -  RA??/RD?? disks/floppies.
		hp  -  RP??/RM?? disks.
		rd  -  RD?? disks on MicroVAX 2000.
		sd  -  SCSI disks.
		st  -  SCSI tapes.
		le  -  LANCE ethernet controller.

	You can omit parameters; ra(0,0) refers to disk 0 partition a
	on default controller. On tapes partition refers to file #
	on the tape.

	Example: DUB1 (DEC syntax) swap partition will be referred as
		ra(1,0,1), DRA2 root partition is hp(2,0).



2.	Installation.
	This document covers installation of a miniroot filesystem on
	the swap partition of a disk from tape/floppy, or setting up
	a netbooted environment.
	Installation of the remaining system on a local disk is best
	done over network or from tape, but this is your own decision.
	The installation principle is to label the root disk,
	copy a miniroot filesystem onto the swap partition,
	boot up from that miniroot filesystem, then create
	root and the other wanted partitions and put system
	to it.
	You will have to deal with 2 files, one is just a boot
	filesystem containing 3 files: boot, copy and edlabel,
	the other is an image of a miniroot filesystem and can
	be split into several pieces depending of what you are
	going to install from.



2.1	INSTALLATION

2.1.1	Installation from TK50. (MicroVAX II/III)
	You will need a file called tk50-file1-???.fs and a
	file called tk50-file2-???.fs, where ??? is the
	revision og NetBSD. These files must be written on tape
	in sequential order; file 1 first and then file2.
	_Blocksize_must_be_512!_ Otherwise the tape will not be
	bootable. Then type:

	>>> B/3 MUA0

	This means that you will bring upp boot for asking 
	from TK50. (MUA0 is DEC naming). It will come up 
	something like

	  2..1..0..


	howto 0x3, bdev 0x12, booting...
	9852+456+34916 start 0x0

	Nboot
	: 


	At the prompt you type edlabel to label the disk, see
	README.edlabel about how to use it.
	When labeling is finished, halt the computer, bring up
	the Nboot prompt again and this time load copy, see
	README.copy about how to use it. Remember that you are
	copying from file 1 on the tape.

	Now go to step 3.


2.2	Installation from RX33/RX50. (MicroVAX II/III)
	The difference between RX33 and RX50 is its size. RX50
	is 400k and RX33 is 1200k.
	You will need a file called rxDD-bootdisk-???.fs and 
	a couple of files called rxDD-copy?-???.fs, where DD
	is 33 or 50 and ??? is the revision of NetBSD.
	The RX33 installation will be 3 floppies and RX50
	installation will be 7 floppies. 

	To boot from floppy type:

	>>> B/3 DUxy

	where x is the controller number and y is device number.
	You will now get up a prompt like

	Nboot
	:

        At the prompt you type edlabel to label the disk, see
        README.edlabel about how to use it.
        When labeling is finished, halt the computer, bring up
        the Nboot prompt again and this time load copy, see
        README.copy about how to use it. Remember that you are
        copying from partition 0 when using floppies.

	Now go to step 3.


2.3	Installation from TU58. (VAX 11/750).

	Not yet :-(

2.4	Setting up a net-booted environment (VS2000)

	All VAXen that can boot over network uses MOP, a DEC protocol.
	To be able to use MOP, a MOP daemon must be present on one of
	the machines on the local network. The boot principle is:
	* The VS2000 broadcast a wish to load an image.
	* A mopd answers and send the boot program to the VAX.
	* The boot program does rarp requests, mounts the root filesystem
	    and loads the kernel.
	* The kernel is loaded and starts executing.

	You must have a mop daemon available to be able to boot. 
	A mopd written by moj@stacken.kth.se can be found at
	ftp.stacken.kth.se:/pub/OS/NetBSD/mopd, and can be compiled
	on many different architectures.
	The boot program uses bootparamd for the rest of the boot sequence
	in exactly the same way as SUNs does.

	To set up a netbooted environment, you need to do the following:
	* Get a mop daemon, and read the docs for configuration. The boot
	    file that shall be loaded is snapshot/boot.mopformat
	* Get the snapshot tar files, and unpack them in a exportable
	    directory somewhere. Do also put the netbsd.GENERIC kernel
	    in the root of your NetBSD/vax hierarchy. Be sure you
	    remember to populate the /dev directory.
	* Put the VS2000 ethernet number in ethers, the path to mount
	    root and swap in bootparams and exports and be sure to
	    export it. See your diskless docs for this.
	* Now it shall boot up diskless.

	You can use the same flags when booting over the net as when
	booting from local disks; like: ">>>B/3 ESA0" will load boot
	in ask state. From here you can load any file you want, even
	copy and edlabel if they are located in the exported root fs.

	Note 1: Netbooting of MicroVAX II/III systems with DEQNA/DELUA
	    ethernet does not work does not work yet because lack of standalone
	    drivers. Mounting of root and swap over NFS works goos though.
	Note 2: Mopd won't work on VAXen with de/qe ethernet, due to the
	    lack of bpf support for those interfaces.

3.	Booting up miniroot.
	When copying is ready, bring the boot program up a third
	time, and this time bring up a real system by telling
	boot where you put your miniroot _and_ also the generic
	kernel name. Example: ra(0,1)gennetbsd,  boots gennetbsd
	from swap partition on ra0.

	When kernel is loaded, you will after a while get a
	question about Root device?. Respond to this with
	xx?*, where xx is the device name, ? is the unit
	number and * tells that the system shall use the swap
	partition as root partition. Example:

	Root device? ra0*

	After that a second question:

	Enter pathname of shell or RETURN for sh:

	Just type return. Now you will be in a normal single-user
	shell, and it's just to newfs your partitions, and start
	installation.

	A few things that you must remember to do from miniroot:
	disklabel -B <diskname>  to install boot blocks.
	MAKEDEV devices in the newly created root filesystem.
	Copy gennetbsd and boot from miniroot filesystem
	to the newly created root filesystem.


	Good luck! (You may need it)
	Ragge

