		       ISC LICENSE, Version 1.0

1.  This license covers any file containing a statement following its
    copyright message indicating that it is covered by this license.
    It also covers any text or binary file, executable, electronic or
    printed image that is derived from a file that is covered by this
    license, or is a modified version of a file covered by this
    license, whether such works exist now or in the future.
    Hereafter, such works will be referred to as "works covered by
    this license," or "covered works."

2.  Each source file covered by this license contains a sequence of
    text starting with the copyright message and ending with "Support
    and other services are available for ISC products - see
    http://www.isc.org for more information."   This will hereafter be
    referred to as the file's Bootstrap License.

3.  If you take significant portions of any source file covered by
    this license and include those portions in some other file, then
    you must also copy the Bootstrap License into that other file,
    and that file becomes a covered file.   You may make a good-faith
    judgement as to where in this file the bootstrap license should
    appear.

4.  The acronym "ISC", when used in this license or generally in the
    context of works covered by this license, is an abbreviation for
    the words "Internet Software Consortium."

5.  A distribution, as referred to hereafter, is any file, collection
    of printed text, CD ROM, boxed set, or other collection, physical
    or electronic, which can be distributed as a single object and which
    contains one or more works covered by this license.

6.  You may make distributions containing covered files and provide
    copies of such distributions to whomever you choose, with or
    without charge, as long as you obey the other terms of this
    license.  Except as stated in (9), you may include as many or as
    few covered files as you choose in such distributions.

7.  When making copies of covered works to distribute to others, you
    must not remove or alter the Bootstrap License.  You may not place
    your own copyright message, license, or similar statements in the
    file prior to the original copyright message or anywhere within
    the Bootstrap License.  Object files and executable files are
    exempt from the restrictions specified in this clause.

8.  If the version of a covered source file as you received it, when
    compiled, would normally produce executable code that would print
    a copyright message followed by a message referring to an ISC web
    page or other ISC documentation, you may not modify the the file
    in such a way that, when compiled, it no longer produces
    executable code to print such a message when invoked in the same way.

9.  Any source file covered by this license will specify within the
    Bootstrap License the name of the ISC distribution from which it
    came, as well as a list of associated documentation files.  The
    associated documentation for a binary file is the same as the
    associated documentation for the source file or files from which
    it was derived.   Associated documentation files contain
    human-readable documentation which the ISC intends to accompany
    any distribution.

    If you produce a distribution, then for every covered file in that
    distribution, you must include all of the associated documentation
    files for that file.  You need only include one copy of each such
    documentation file in such distributions.

    Absence of required documentation files from a distribution you
    receive or absence of the list of documentation files from a
    source file covered by this license does not excuse you from this
    from this requirement.  If the distribution you receive does not
    contain these files, you must obtain them from the ISC and include
    them in any redistribution of any work covered by this license.
    For information on how to obtain required documentation not
    included with your distribution, see:

	    http://www.isc.org/getting-documentation.html.

    If the list of documentation files was removed from your copy of a
    covered work, you must obtain such a list from the ISC.   The
    web page at http://www.isc.org/getting-documentation.html contains
    pointers to lists of files for each ISC distribution covered by
    this license.

    It is permissible in a source or binary distribution containing
    covered works to include reformatted versions of the documentation
    files.  It is also permissible to add to or modify the
    documentation files, as long as the formatting is similar in
    legibility, readability, font, and font size to other documentation
    in the derived product, as long as any sections labeled
    CONTRIBUTIONS in these files are unchanged except with respect to
    formatting, as long as the order in which the CONTRIBUTIONS section
    appears in these files is not changed, and as long as the manual
    page which describes how to contribute to the Internet Software
    Consortium (hereafter referred to as the Contributions Manual Page)
    is unchanged except with respect to formatting.

    Documentation that has been translated into another natural
    language may be included in place of or in addition to the
    required documentation, so long as the CONTRIBUTIONS section and
    the Contributions Manual Page are either left in their original
    language or translated into the new language with such care and
    diligence as is required to preserve the original meaning.

10. You must include this license with any distribution that you make,
    in such a way that it is clearly associated with such covered works
    as are present in that distribution.  In any electronic
    distribution, the license must be in a file called "ISC-LICENSE".

    If you make a distribution that contains works from more than one
    ISC distribution, you may either include a copy of the ISC-LICENSE
    file that accompanied each such ISC distribution in such a way that
    works covered by each license are all clearly grouped with that
    license, or you may include the single copy of the ISC-LICENSE that
    has the highest version number of all the ISC-LICENSE files
    included with such distributions, in which case all covered works
    will be covered by that single license file.   The version number
    of a license appears at the top of the file containing the text of
    that license, or if in printed form, at the top of the first page
    of that license.

11. If the list of associated documentation is in a seperated file,
    you must include that file with any distribution you make, in such
    a way that the relationship between that file and the files that
    refer to it is clear.   It is not permissible to merge such files
    in the event that you make a distribution including files from
    more than one ISC distribution, unless all the Bootstrap Licenses
    refer to files for their lists of associated documentation, and
    those references all list the same filename.

12. If a distribution that includes covered works includes a mechanism
    for automatically installing covered works, following that
    installation process must not cause the person following that
    process to violate this license, knowingly or unknowingly.  In the
    event that the producer of a distribution containing covered files
    accidentally or wilfully violates this clause, persons other than
    the producer of such a distribution shall not be held liable for
    such violations, but are not otherwise excused from any
    requirement of this license.

13. COVERED WORKS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS".  ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
    WITH REGARD TO COVERED WORKS INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

14. IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
    OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
    CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF COVERED WORKS.

Use of covered works under different terms is prohibited unless you
have first obtained a license from ISC granting use pursuant to
different terms.  Such terms may be negotiated by contacting ISC as
follows:

    Internet Software Consortium
    950 Charter Street
    Redwood City, CA 94063
    Tel: 1-888-868-1001
    Fax: 1-650-779-7055
    Email: licensing@isc.org
