Before you start you might need to consider your disk configuration
to sort out a quirk in SCSI-ID to SD-UNIT mapping that exists on
Sun Sparcstations.

Upon leaving the factory, SunOS and the OpenBOOT ROM map according to
this table:

    SCSI-ID ->	SunOS SD-UNIT
    0		sd3
    1		sd1
    2		sd2
    3		sd0
    4		sd4
    5		sd5
    6		sd6

Unlike SunOS and the OpenBOOT ROM, a generic NetBSD kernel numbers
scsi drives sequentially as it finds them.  The drive with the
lowest scsi-id will be called sd0, the next one sd1, etc.

To ease the installation process, the default NetBSD kernel in the
distribution is setup to match the Sun mapping above by hard-wiring
scsi-id#3 to sd0 and scsi-id#0 to sd3. The remaining drives will be
dynamically mapped to other sd* numbers.

A truely generic NetBSD kernel is also provided as `/netbsd.GENERIC',
which will do the standard NetBSD probe ordering. If your configuration
differs from the default Sun setup, you can try to use this kernel to
complete the installation.

NOTE: this is also a concern when you start building your own customised
kernels.


Your OpenBOOT ROM may need some setup.  make sure you boot from `new
command mode'.  If your machine comes up and gives you a `>' prompt
instead of `ok', type:

    >n
    ok setenv sunmon-compat? false
    ok

This is needed because the NetBSD kernel relies on functionality provided
by OpenBOOT ROMs -- the ability to pass down Forth commands and have them
executed in the ROM -- that appears to go away when the OpenBOOT ROM
operates in `old monitor compatibility' mode.

Also, you cannot use the security modes of the sparc OpenBOOT ROM.

    ok setenv security-mode none



If you're installing NetBSD/sparc for the first time it's a good idea
to look at the partition sizes of disk you intend installing NetBSD on.

Asumming a classic partition scheme with root (`/') and /usr filesystems,
a comfortable size for the NetBSD root filesystem partition is about 20MB;
a good initial size for the swap partition is twice the amount of physical
memory in your machine (though, unlike SunOS 4.x, there are no restrictions
on the size of the swap partition that would render part of your memory
unusable). A full binary installation takes about 60MB in `/usr'.

Some network devices (i.e. the built-in `le' interface on sun4m machines)
allow a choice between operating on a UTP or a AUI port. The `le' driver
supports automatic detection of the port which is actually connected to
the wire.

If automatic detection is not available or not working properly in your
environment, you may have to specify the type connection using the
`media' parameter of ifconfig(8). During installation, you'll get the
opportunity to specify the appropriate medium. Use ``10base5/AUI''
to select the AUI connector, or ``10baseT/UTP'' to select the UTP connector.

