	$NetBSD: upgrade,v 1.3.2.1 1998/02/07 06:26:58 mellon Exp $

The upgrade to NetBSD _VER is a binary upgrade; it would be prohibitive
to make users upgrade by compiling and installing the _VER sources, and
it would be very difficult to even compile a set of instructions that
allowed them to do so.  

To do the upgrade, you must have at least base.tgz on disk and
a copy of the proper netbsd.default.  It will require quite a bit
of disk space to do the upgrade.

Since upgrading involves replacing the kernel, and most of the system
binaries, it has the potential to cause data loss.  You are strongly
advised to BACK UP ANY IMPORTANT DATA ON YOUR DISK, whether on the
NetBSD partition or on another operating system's partition, before
beginning the upgrade process.

To upgrade your system, follow the following instructions:

	Assuming you have space, load the .tgz files onto disk
	some place.  Then boot the floppy-144.fs image via the
	method you use.  Under the install system, extract the
	.tgz files as mentioned below or read the i386 INSTALL
	notes for how to use sysinst.

	Extract the .tgz files.  Remember to use the --unlink
	option with tar so it can replace binaries currently in use.
	For example, to extract base.tgz:

		cd / 
		tar -xpzf /gz.files/base.tgz --unlink

	Extract all the .tgz files you want.  You should carefully
	work at upgrading /etc.  There may be changes to file formats
	depending on what version of NetBSD/pc532 you are running.

	BE CAREFUL IF YOU ARE NOT RUNNING WITH SECURITY.  The 
	_VER distribution does contain support for password encryption.
	If you are upgrading from 1.0, it would be reasonable to save a
	copy of master.passwd and remove all passwords until after you
	upgrade.  (NetBSD-1.0 did not ship with password encryption.)

	Place netbsd.default in / as the file netbsd.

	Reboot.  (Remember, detbsd.default is a 9600 console line
	kernel.  Read the last part of the new installation part of
	these notes to find out how to change your default speed.)

	After reboot, you should make sure you check your new file systems.
