	$NetBSD: contents,v 1.10 1998/01/09 18:46:05 perry Exp $	

The Atari-specific portion of the NetBSD _VER release is found in the
"atari" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-_VER/atari/
			binary/		atari binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			floppies/	atari boot and installation
					floppies; see below.

			security/	atari security distribution;
					see below;

			utils.netbsd/
			utils.tos/	Miscellaneous atari
					installation utilities; see
					installation section, below.

There are three atari floppy images to be found in the "atari/floppies"
subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER distribution.  One of them is a
bootable TOS kernel floppy and the other two are installation floppies.
They are described in more detail below.  There are gzipped versions
of each available, for easier downloading.  (The gzipped version
have the ".gz" extension added to their names.)

Bootable Kernel floppy:

	This TOS disk contains the loadbsd and chg_pid programs
	and a kernel.  It is setup so that you can insert it
	int your floppy drive, and start the programs from GEM.

	For the TT030 and Falcon, the floppy is named boot-_SVER_S.fs and
	the kernel supplied is 'BOOT'. For the Hades, you need the
	hades-boot-_SVER_S.fs floppy. The kernel is 'HADES'.

Installation floppy:

	This disk contains a BSD root file system setup to help
	you install the rest of NetBSD.  This includes formatting
	and mounting your root and /usr partitions and getting
	ready to extract (and possibly first fetching) the distribution
	sets.  There is enough on this file system to allow you to
	make a slip connection, configure an ethernet, mount an NFS
	file system or ftp.  You can also load distribution sets from
	a SCSI tape or from one of your existing GEMDOS partitions.

	These floppies are named "miniroot-_SVER_S.fs.1" and "miniroot-_SVER_S.fs.2".

There are also TOS utilities in the "atari/utils.tos" subdirectory, which
you will need to get NetBSD/Atari 'up-and-running'.

	The "gzip.ttp" program allows you to uncompress .gz images.  The
	usage is "gzip.ttp -d filename.gz".

	The "rawwrite.ttp" program allows you to create the installation 
	floppy disks from the files in the "atari/floppies" directory.

	The "aptck.ttp" program reads the partition tables present on a
	given disk and tries to interpret then the same way the NetBSD
	kernel does.  If you have a disk on which GEMDOS and NetBSD are
	to co-exist, It is a good idea to run this before you begin the
	NetBSD/Atari installation just to check that the kernel's view
	of the partition tables agree with GEMDOS's view.  If you have
	more than 3 partitions defined on a disk you will notice that
	the NetBSD/Atari partition starts one sector after the GEMDOS
	partition.  This is to allow space for the auxilliary root for
	the 4th and subsequent partitions.

	The "loadbsd.ttp" program loads the NetBSD/Atari kernel from TOS
	(or MiNT, MultiTOS, etc.).

The NetBSD/Atari kernels are in the "atari/kernels" subdirectory.

The NetBSD/atari binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD _VER release for the atari.  There are seven binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the "atari/binary"
subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base	The NetBSD/atari _VER base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 8.7M gzipped, 25.2M uncompressed ]

	comp	The NetBSD/atari Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 6.5M gzipped, 22.9M uncompressed ]

	etc	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 52K gzipped, 320K uncompressed ]

	games	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 7.2M uncompressed ]

	man	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 10.0M uncompressed ]

	misc	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 2.1M gzipped, 8.1M uncompressed ]

	text	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 960K gzipped, 3.7M uncompressed ]

The atari security distribution set is named "secr" and can be found
in the "atari/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD _VER distribution
tree.  It contains crypt.c (the source file for the DES encryption
algorithm) and the binaries which depend on it.  It can only be found
on those sites which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that
can legally obtain it.  (Remember, because of United States law, it
may not be legal to distribute this set to locations outside of the
United States and Canada.)  [ 740K gzipped, 2.5M uncompressed ]

The atari binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each atari binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xvfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
