	$NetBSD: install,v 1.9.2.4 1998/02/07 06:23:18 mellon Exp $	

Installing NetBSD is a relatively complex process, but, if you have
this document in hand and are careful to read and remember the
information which is presented to you by the install program, it
shouldn't be too much trouble.

Before you begin, you must have already prepared your hard disk as
detailed in the section on preparing your system for install.

The following is a walk-through of the steps necessary to get NetBSD
installed on your hard disk.  If you wish to stop the installation,
you may hit Control-C at any prompt, but if you do, you'll have to
begin again from scratch.

	Transfer the miniroot file system onto the hard disk partition
	used by NetBSD for swapping, as described in the "Preparing
	your System for NetBSD Installation" section above.

	* Booting from AmigaOS, using loadbsd:

	You then need to have "ixemul.library" in your LIBS: directory
	on AmigaDOS.  You also need to have the "loadbsd" program
	in your command path.  If AmigaDOS complains about loadbsd
	not being an executable file, be sure that the "Execute"
	protection bit is set.  If not, set it with the command:
		Protect loadbsd add e

	Next you need to get yourself into NetBSD by loading the
	kernel from AmigaDOS with loadbsd like so:

		loadbsd -b netbsd

	If you have an AGA machine, and your monitor will handle
	the dblNTSC mode, you may also include the "-A" option to
	enable the dblNTSC display mode.

	If your machine has a fragmented physical memory space, as, 
	e.g., DraCo machines, you should add the "-n2" option to 
	enable the use of all memory segments.

	* Directly booting NetBSD, with boot blocks installed:

	[This description is for V40 (OS 3.1) ROMs. For older ROMs,
	there might be small differences. Check your AmigaOS documentation
	to learn about the exact procedure.]

[XXX should note someplace that using bootblocks may not work on some
 systems, and may require a mountable filesystem on others?]

	Reboot your machine, holding down both mouse buttons if you 
	have a 2-button mouse, the outer mouse buttons if you have
	a 3-button mouse. On the DraCo, press the left mouse button
	instead, when the boot screen prompts you for it.

	From the boot menu, select "Boot Options".
	Select the swap partition with the miniroot, and then "ok".
	Select "Boot" now. The machine will boot the bootblock, which
	will prompt your for a command line. You have a few seconds time
	to change the default. Entering an empty line will accept the
	default.

	The bootblock uses command lines of the form:

	file options

	where file is the kernel file name on the partition where the
	boot block is on, and options are the same as with loadbsd.
	E.g., instead of "loadbsd -bsSn2 netbsd" use "netbsd -bsSn2".

	* Once your kernel boots:

	You should see the screen clear and some information about
	your system as the kernel configures the hardware.  Note which
	hard disk device(s) are configured (sd0, sd1, etc).  Then
	you will be prompted for a root device.  At this time type
	'sd0b', where 'sd0' is the device which contains the swap
	partition you created during the hard disk preparation.
	When prompted for a dump device, answer 'none' for the upgrade 
	(normally, you would tell it one of the swap devices). When 
	prompted for the root filesystem type, confirm 'generic', which 
	will auto-detect it. 

	If the system should hang after entering the root device, try
	again with

		loadbsd -I ff -b netbsd

	This disables synchronous transfer on all SCSI devices.

	The system should continue to boot.  For now ignore WARNING:
	messages about bad dates in clocks, and a warning about /etc/rc
	not existing.  Eventually you will be be asked to enter the
	pathname of the shell, just hit return.  After a short while,
	you will be asked to select the type of your keyboard.  After
	you have entered a valid response here, the system asks you if
	you want to install or upgrade your system.  Since you are
	reading the 'install' section, 'i' would be the proper
	response here...

	The installer starts with a nice welcome messages.  Read this
	message carefully, it also informs you of the risks involved
	in continuing!  If you still want to go on, type 'y'.  The
	installer now continues by trying to figure out your disk
	configuration. 	When it is done, you will be prompted to
	select a root device from the list of disks it has found.

	You should know at this point that the disks are NOT numbered
	according to their scsi-id! The NetBSD kernel numbers the scsi
	drives (and other devices on the scsi bus) sequentially as it
	finds them. The drive with the lowest scsi id will be called sd0,
	the next one sd1, etc.  Also, any Amiga internal IDE disk drives
	will be configured as "SCSI" drives, and will be configured
	before any 'real' SCSI drives (if any are present).

	YOU ARE NOW AT THE POINT OF NO RETURN.  If you confirm that
	you want to install NetBSD, your hard drive will be modified,
	and perhaps its contents scrambled at the whim of the install
	program.  Type Control-C NOW if you don't want this.

	At this time, you will need to tell the installer which partition
	will be associated with the different filesystems.

	The install program will now make the the file systems you
	specified.  There should be only one error per file system in
	this section of the installation.  It will look like this:

		newfs: ioctl (WDINFO): Invalid argument
		newfs: /dev/rsd0a: can't rewrite disk label

	If there are any others, restart from the the beginning of
	the installation process.  This error is ok as the Amiga
	does not write disklabels currently.  You should expect
	this error whenever using newfs.

	The install will now ask you want to configure any network
	information.  It ill ask for the machine's host name, domain
	name, and other network configuration information.

	Since the network configuration might have lead to additional (nfs)
	filesystem entries, you get another chance to modify your fstab.

	You are finally at the point where some real data will be put on
	your freshly made filesystems. Select the device type you wish
	to install from and off you go....
	Some notes:
	    - If you want to install from tape, please read the section
	      about how to create such a tape.
	    - Some tapes (e.g. Archive Viper 150) refuse to operate with
	      the default tape density ("nrst0"). Try "nrst0h",
	      "nrst0m", or "nrst0l" instead.
	    - Install at least the base and etc sets.
	    - If you have to specify a path relative to the mount-point and
	      you need the mount-point itself, enter '.'.

	Next you will be asked to specify the timezone.  Just select the
	timezone you are in. The installer will make the correct setup
	on your root filesystem. After the timezone-link is installed,
	the installer will proceed by creating the device nodes on your
	root filesystem.

	Be patient, this will take a while...

	Finally, the installer ask you if you want to install the bootblock
	code on your root disk. This is a matter of personal choice and can
	also be done from a running NetBSD system. See the 'installboot(8)'
	manual page about how to do this.


Once the installer is done, halt the system with the "halt" command
(wait for "halted" to be displayed) and reboot.  Then again boot
NetBSD this time with the command:

	loadbsd netbsd

or select the root partition from the boot menu, and tell it to boot

	netbsd -s

You need to do your final tweaks now.  First mount your file systems
like so:

	mount -av

Your system is now complete but not completely configured; you
should adjust the /etc/sendmail.cf file as necessary to suit your
site.  You should also examine and adjust the settings in /etc/rc.conf.
You can use vi or ed to edit the files. If you installed the man pages
you can type `man vi' or `man ed' for instructions on how to use these
somewhat non-intuitive editors.  

Once you are done with the rest of configuration unmount your file
systems and halt your system, then reboot:

	cd /
	umount -av
	halt
	<reboot>

Finally you can now boot your system and it will be completely
functional:

	loadbsd -a netbsd

When it boots off of the hard drive, you will have a complete
NetBSD system!  CONGRATULATIONS! (You really deserve them!!!)
