You will need an AmigaDOS hard drive prep tool to prepare you hard
drives for use with NetBSD/Amiga.  HDToolBox is provided with the
system software and on floppy installation disks since Release 2.0
of AmigaDOS so we will provide instructions for its use.

Preparing you hard disk with HDToolBox:

	A full explanation of HDToolBox can be found with your
	AmigaDOS manuals and is beyond the scope of this document.

	The first time you partition a drive, you need to set its drive
	type so that you have working geometry parameters. To do this
	you enter the "Change drive type" menu, and either use "read
	parameters from drive" or set them manually.

	Note you will be modifying your HD's if you mess something 
	up here you could lose everything on all the drives that 
	you configure.  It is therefore advised that you:

		Write down your current configurations.  Do this
		by examining each partition on the drive and the
		drives parameters (from Change drive type.)

		Back up the partitions you are keeping.

	What you need to do is partition your drives; creating at least
	root, swap and /usr partitions and possibly at least one more for
	/local if you have the space.

	This should be done as the HDToolBox manual describes.  One thing
	to note is that if you are not using a Commodore controller you
	will need to specify the device your SCSI controller uses e.g.
	if you have a Warp Engine you would:

		from cli,
			hdtoolbox warpdrive.device

		from wb set the tooltype,
			SCSI_DEVICE_NAME=warpdrive.device

	The important things you need to do above and beyond normal
	partitioning includes (from Partition Drive section):

		Marking all NetBSD partitions as non-bootable, with
		two exceptions: the root partition, if you want to boot
		NetBSD directly, or the swap partition, if you want
		to boot the installation miniroot directly.

		Changing the file system parameters of the partitions
		to NetBSD ones.  This must be done from the
		partitioning section and `Advanced options' must
		be enabled.  To Make the needed changes:

		- Click the `Adv. Options' button
		- Click the `Change file system' button

		- Choose `Custom File System'
		- Turn off `Automount' if on.
		- Set the dostype to one of these three choices:

			root partition  : 0x4e425207
			swap partition  : 0x4e425301
			other partitions: 0x4e425507

		Here `other' refers to other partitions you will
		format for reading and writing under NetBSD (e.g.
		/usr)

		Make sure you hit the return key to enter this value
		as some versions of HDToolBox will forget your entry
		if you don't.

		- Turn custom boot code off
		- Set Reserved Blocks start and end to 0.
		- Click Ok.

		On the root (and, for installation, swap) partition,
		set instead this:

		- Turn custom boot code on
		- Set Reserved Blocks start and end to 0.
		- Set Number of Custom Boot Blocks to 16
		- Set Automount This Partition on
		- Click Ok.

		Mask and maxtransfer are not used with NetBSD.

	
	Once this is done NetBSD/Amiga will be able to recognize your
	disks and which partitions it should use.

Transferring the miniroot file system:

	The NetBSD/Amiga installation or upgrade now uses a "miniroot"
	file system which is installed on the partition used by NetBSD
	for swapping.  This removes the requirement of using a floppy
	disk for the file system used by the installation or upgrade
	process.  It also allows more utilities to be present on the
	file system than would be available when using an 880K floppy
	disk.

	Once the hard disk has been prepared for NetBSD, the miniroot
	file system (miniroot.fs) is transferred to the swap
	partition configured during the hard disk prep (or the existing
	swap partition in the case of an upgrade).  The xstreamtodev
	utility provided in the "amiga/utilities" directory can be used
	on AmigaDOS to transfer the file system for either a new
	installation or an upgrade.  The file system can also be
	transferred on an existing NetBSD system for an update by
	using dd.  This should only be done after booting NetBSD
	into single-user state.  It may also be possible to shutdown
	to single-user, providing that the single-user state processes
	are not using the swap partition.

	On AmigaDOS, the command:
		xstreamtodev --input=miniroot.fs --rdb-name=<swap partition>
	where <swap partition> is the name you gave to the NetBSD
	partition to be used for swapping.  If xstreamtodev is unable
	to determine the SCSI driver device name or the unit number
	of the specified partition, you may also need to include the
	option "--device=<driver.name>" and/or "--unit=<SCSI unit number>".

	To transfer the miniroot using NetBSD, you should be booted up
	in single user state on the current NetBSD system, or use the
	"shutdown now" command to shutdown to single-user state.  Then
	copy the miniroot using dd:
		dd if=miniroot.fs of=/dev/rsd0b
	where /dev/rsd0b should be the device path of the swap partition
	your system is configured to use.  Once the file is copied,
	reboot back to AmigaDOS to boot the upgrade kernel.
