The upgrade to NetBSD _VER is a binary upgrade; it would be prohibitive
to make users upgrade by compiling and installing the _VER sources, and
it would be very difficult to even compile a set of instructions that
allowed them to do so.  Because of the various changes to the system,
it is impractical to upgrade by recompiling from the sources and
installing.

To do the upgrade, you must have the NetBSD kernel on AmigaDOS and
you must transfer the miniroot file system miniroot-13.fs onto the swap
partition of the NetBSD hard disk.  You must also have at least the
"base13" binary distribution set available, so that you can upgrade
with it, using one of the upgrade methods described above.  Finally,
you must have sufficient disk space available to install the new
binaries.  Since the old binaries are being overwritten in place,
you only need space for the new binaries, which weren't previously
on the system.  If you have a few megabytes free on each of your
root and /usr partitions, you should have enough space.

Since upgrading involves replacing the kernel, and most of the system
binaries, it has the potential to cause data loss.  You are strongly
advised to BACK UP ANY IMPORTANT DATA ON YOUR DISK, whether on the
NetBSD partition or on another operating system's partition, before
beginning the upgrade process.

To upgrade your system, follow the following instructions:

	Transfer the miniroot file system onto the hard disk partition
	used by NetBSD for swapping, as described in the "Preparing
	your System for NetBSD Installation" section above.

	Now boot up NetBSD using the _VER kernel using the loadbsd
	command:

		loadbsd -b netbsd

	If you machine has a split memory space, like, e.g., DraCo
	machines, use this instead:

		loadbsd -bn2 netbsd

	* Directly booting NetBSD, with boot blocks installed:

	[This description is for V40 (OS 3.1) ROMs. For older ROMs,
	there might be small differences. Check your AmigaOS documentation
	to learn about the exact procedure.]

[XXX another note about bootblock support?]

	Reboot your machine, holding down both mouse buttons if you
	have a 2-button mouse, the outer mouse buttons if you have
	a 3-button mouse. On the DraCo, press the left mouse button
	instead, when the boot screen prompts you for it.

	From the boot menu, select "Boot Options".
	Select the swap partition with the miniroot, and then "ok".
	Select "Boot" now. The machine will boot the bootblock, which
	will prompt your for a command line. You have a few seconds time
	to change the default. Entering an empty line will accept the
	default.

	The bootblock uses command lines of the form:

	file options

	where file is the kernel file name on the partition where the
	boot block is on, and options are the same as with loadbsd.
	E.g., instead of "loadbsd -bsSn2 netbsd" use "netbsd -bsSn2".

	* Once your kernel boots:

	You should see the screen clear and some information about
	your system as the kernel configures the hardware.  Note which
	hard disk device is configured that contains your root and
	swap partition.  When prompted for the root device, type
	'sd0b' (replacing 0 with the disk number that NetBSD used for
	your root/swap device). When you reach the prompt asking you
	for a shell name, just hit return.

	You will be presented with some information about the upgrade
	process and a warning message, and will be asked if you wish
	to proceed with the upgrade process.  If you answer
	negatively, the upgrade process will stop, and your disk will
	not be modified.  If you answer affirmatively, the upgrade
	process will begin, and your disk will be modified.  You may
	hit Control-C to stop the upgrade process at any time.
	However, if you hit it at an inopportune moment, your system
	may be left in an inconsistent (and possibly unusable) state.

	You will now be greeted and reminded of the fact that this is a
	potential dangerous procedure and that you should not upgrade the
	etc-set.

	When you decide to proceed, you will be prompted to enter
	your root disk. After you've done this, it will be checked
	automatically to make sure that the filesystem is in a sane
	state before making any modifications. After this is done,
	you will be asked if you want to configure your network.

	You are now allowed to edit your fstab. Normally you don't have
	to. Note that the upgrade-kit uses it's own copy of the fstab.
	Whatever you do here *won't* affect your actual fstab.
	After you are satisfied with your fstab, the upgrade-kit will check
	all filesystems mentioned in it. When they're ok, they will be
	mounted.

	You will now be asked if your sets are stored on a normally
	mounted filesystem. You should answer 'y' to this question if
	you have the sets stored on a filesystem that was present in
	the fstab. The actions you should take for the set extraction
	are pretty logical (I think).

	After you have extracted the sets, the upgrade kit will proceed
	with setting the timezone and installing the kernel and bootcode.
	This is all exactly the same as described in the installation
	section.

Your system has now been upgraded to NetBSD _VER.

	After a new kernel has been copied to your hard disk, your
	machine is a complete NetBSD _VER system.  However, that
	doesn't mean that you're finished with the upgrade process.
	There are several things that you should do, or might have to
	do, to insure that the system works properly.

	You will probably want to get the etc13 distribution,
	extract it, and compare its contents with those in your /etc/
	directory.  You will probably want to replace some of your
	system configuration files, or incorporate some of the changes
	in the new versions into yours.

	You will want to delete old binaries that were part
	of the version of NetBSD that you upgraded from and have since
	been removed from the NetBSD distribution.  If upgrading from
	a NetBSD version older than 1.0, you might also want to
	recompile any locally-built binaries, to take advantage of the
	shared libraries.  (Note that any new binaries that you build
	will be dynamically linked, and therefore take advantage of
	the shared libraries, by default.  For information on how to
	make statically linked binaries, see the cc(1) and ld(1)
	manual pages.)
