.\"	$NetBSD: prep,v 1.8 1999/01/13 07:30:08 ross Exp $	
.
Installing NetBSD/pmax using the sysinst tool and an image of a full
bootable root filesystem is now a relatively painless process.  The
diskimage is avaiable via (either a diskimage, dd'able to a raw disk
or tarfile to for NFS .
.Pp
From most convenient to least convenient, the installation methods
are:
.Bl -enum
.It
Booting as a diskless workstation via Ethernet,
followed by initialization of the local disk and
installing onto the local disk over NFS.
.It
Copying a bootable diskimage onto the beginning of a disk
and installing onto that disk 
.It
installation using a helper machine to set up a bootable
NetBSD/pmax  root filesystem, and moving the disk
to the target.
.It
Installation from Ultrix or other OSes by putting a copy
of the diskimage into the existing swap partition and a copy
of the NetBSD kernel into your Ultrix root filesystem.
.El
.Pp
Before you start, you must choose an installation method.  If you have
an Ethernet connection to an NFS server that can provide even ~30M for
a diskless-root filesystem, then installation via the net is best.
Next best, if your DECstation is already running Ultrix and has two
disk drives (or one, if you live dangerously), is to copy a diskimage
onto one drive.  Finally, you can install by using a second machine as
a helper to prepare a bootable NetBSD/pmax disk.
.Pp
If your target is going to run diskless, then installation proceeds as
for method 1.
.Pp
This release of NetBSD/pmax uses the new sysinst installation utility.
You should examine the guide on the NetBSD/pmax web site, which has
more complete and more up-to-date instructions for sysinst.  The
following is a brief synopsis which has been successfully followed by
both first-time NetBSD/pmax installers and to upgrade existing
gsystems.
.Pp
You should familiarize yourself with the console PROM environment
and the hardware configuration. The PROMs on the older Decstation
2100 and 3100 use one syntax. The PROMs on the TurboChannel machines
use a completely different syntax.  Be sure you know how to print
the configuration of your machine, and how to boot from disk or
network, as appropriate.
.Pp
On the 2100/3100, that's
.Bd -literal -offset indent
boot -f rz(0,N,0)netbsd (boot from rzN)
boot -f tftp()          (boot diskless via TFTP)
boot -f tftp()          (boot via MOP from an Ultrix server)
.Ed
On the 5000/200, the equivalent is
.Bd -literal -offset indent
boot 5/rzN/netbsd
boot 6/tftp
boot 6/mop
.Ed
and on other  5000 series machines,
.Bd -literal -offset indent
boot 3/rzN/netbsd
boot 3/tftp
boot 3/mop
.Ed
You will also need to know the total size (in sectors) and the
approximate geometry of the disks you are installing onto, so that you
can label your disks for the BSD fast filesystem (FFS).  For most SCSI
drives (including all SCSI-2 drives), the kernel will correctly detect
the disk geometry. The sysinst tool will suggest these as the default.
.Pp
If you're installing NetBSD/pmax for the first time it's a very good
idea to pre-plan partition sizes for the disks on which you're
installing NetBSD.  Changing the size of partitions after you've
installed is difficult.  If you do not have a spare bootable disk, it
may be simpler to re-install NetBSD again from scratch.
.Pp
If you install by copying a disk image, and you want to change the size
of the root partition from the default 32Mbytes, you will need a second
`scratch' disk. You should copy the diskimage onto the `scratch' disk,
boot the scratch disk, and use it to create a tailored root filesystem.
This is because you cannot change the size of an active partition (i.e.,
the root filesysem you booted). The standard trick to get around this is
to put a cut-down miniroot into the swap partition, boot the miniroot,
and use that system to change the root filesystem size.  DECstation
PROMs don't reliably support booting off partitions other than the 'a'
partition, which is why you need two disks to tailor the root filesystem
size.
.Pp
Assuming a classic partition scheme with separate root (`/') and /usr
filesystems, a comfortable size for the NetBSD root filesystem
partition is about 32M.  A good initial size for the swap partition is
twice the amount of physical memory in your machine (though, unlike
Ultrix, there are no restrictions on the size of the swap partition
that would render part of your memory unusable).  The default swap
size is 64Mbytes, which is adequate for doing a full system build.  A
full binary installation, with X11R6.3, takes about 150MB in `/usr'.
