The x68k-specific portion of the NetBSD 1.2 release is found in the
"x68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-1.2/x68k/
			binary/		x68k binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			floppies/	x68k boot and installation
					floppies; see below.

			utils/		installation utilities which
					runs on Human68k.

There are three floppy images in the "x68k/floppies" subdirectory of
the NetBSD 1.2 distribution. One is bootable kernel-copy floppy, one
is "inst12.fs", which is used to install NetBSD/x68k for the first
time, and one is "upgr12.fs", which is used in upgrading the system
from the previous version of NetBSD/x68k.

Bootable Kernel-copy floppy:

	These disks contain file systems, are bootable, and have
	enough utilities on board to copy a new kernel to your hard
	disk once you have it partitioned for NetBSD.  They make
	upgrading to a new kernel easy, because all you have to do is
	get a new kernel-copy floppy with a new kernel, boot from it,
	and confirm that you want to have the kernel copied to your
	disk.

Installation floppy:

	This disk contains the software necessary to prepare your hard
	drive for NetBSD and install the NetBSD distribution. It is
	not bootable, and must be used in conjunction with the kernel-
	copy floppy.  This floppy is named "inst12.fs".

Upgrade floppy:

	This disk contains the software to be used in upgrading the
	system from a previous version of NetBSD.  It is not bootable,
	and must be used in conjunction with the kernel-copy floppy.
	This floppy is named "upgr12.fs".

The NetBSD/x68k binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD 1.2 release for the x68k.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
subdirectories of the "x68k/binary" subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.2
distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base12	The NetBSD/x68k 1.2 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7.5M gzipped, 22.8M uncompressed ]

	comp12	The NetBSD/x68k Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 5.3M gzipped, 17.5M uncompressed ]

	etc12	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 68K gzipped, 358K uncompressed ]

	games12	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 7.0M uncompressed ]

	man12	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 0.9M gzipped, 3.5M uncompressed ]

	misc12	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.9M gzipped, 6.6M uncompressed ]

	text12	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 0.8M gzipped, 2.9M uncompressed ]

For other platform, there is a security distribution named "secr12"
provided.  It contains the files which cannot be exported outside
the United States and Canada.  Since all the developers of the NetBSD/x68k
live in Japan, the x68k security distribution is not provided in the
binary form.

The x68k binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each x68k binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xvfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
