The mac68k-specific portion of the NetBSD 1.2 release is found in the
"mac68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-1.2/mac68k/
			binary/		mac68k binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			security/	mac68k security distribution;
					see below.

			utils/		The mac68k installation utilities.

The NetBSD/mac68k binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD 1.2 release for the mac68k.  There are eight binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the "mac68k/binary"
subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.2 distribution tree, and are as follows:

	netbsd12 The NetBSD/mac68k 1.2 kernel binary.  You MUST
		install this file.  It is the kernel that you need
		to boot the system.
		[ 436K gzipped, 900K uncompressed ]

	base12	The NetBSD/mac68k 1.2 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7.2M gzipped, 20.7M uncompressed ]

	comp12	The NetBSD/mac68k Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN.
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 5.1M gzipped, 16.7M uncompressed ]

	etc12	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 68K gzipped, 350K uncompressed ]

	games12	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.7M gzipped, 6.8M uncompressed ]

	man12	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 0.9M gzipped, 3.4M uncompressed ]

	misc12	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.8M gzipped, 6.3M uncompressed ]

	text12	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 0.7M gzipped, 2.8M uncompressed ]

The mac68k security distribution set is named "secr12" and can be found
in the "mac68k/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.2 distribution
tree.  It contains the crypt libraries (for the DES encryption algorithm)
and the binaries which depend on it.  It can only be found on those sites
which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that can legally obtain
it.  (Remember, because of United States law, this distribution set may
not be exported to locations outside of the United States and Canada.)
[ 432K gzipped, 1.5M uncompressed ]

The mac68k binary distribution sets are distributed as full .tar.gz
files (without that extension).  The instructions given for extracting
the source sets work equally well for the binary sets, but it is worth
noting that if you use that method, the files are extracted "below" the
current directory.  That is, if you want to extract the binaries "into"
your system, i.e. replace the system binaries with them, you have to run
the "tar xfp" from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way,
those programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If
you follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
