The installation can be broken down into three basic steps:
	* Run Mkfs to build a filesystem or filesystems.
	* Run the Installer to load the files onto your filesystems.
	* Run the Booter to boot the system.

**** Preparing the filesystem(s)

Double-click on the Mkfs application icon to start it up.  It will ask you
for the SCSI ID of the drive that you are installing upon.  Once this is
selected, it will present a list of the partitions on that disk. You must
first convert the partitions to a type which NetBSD can understand. Select
each partition on which you wish to build a filesystem and click on the
"Change" button.  If you are placing the entire installation on a single
partition, select the "NetBSD Root&Usr" radio button.  If you are using
multiple partitions, select "NetBSD Root" for the root partition and
"NetBSD Usr" for all the other partitions.  You should select "NetBSD Swap"
for the swap partition. 

When you have finished converting each partition, select each partition and
click on the "Format" button.  You will now be asked for a bunch of
parameters for the hard drive and the filesystem.  Usually, you can just
take the defaults.  If you are installing onto removable media (e.g. a Zip,
Jaz, or Syquest), please see the FAQ.  Note that although this dialog only
has the "OK" button, you are not committed, yet.  Once you get the values
you want, press the "OK" button. A dialog will be presented at this point
with two options: "Format" and "Cancel."  If you choose "Cancel," nothing
will be written to your drive.  If you choose "Format," the program will
proceed to make a filesystem.

Mkfs is not a well-behaved Macintosh application.  It will not allow any
other tasks to run while it does (cooperative multitasking at its best).
When it's finished, the program will put up a dialog to ask if you have
scanned the output for any error messages.  Usually there won't have been
any errors, but do scan the output to make sure.  Simply click on the "I
Read It" button and the program will quit.

Repeat as necessary for any extra partitions that you wish to make
filesystems on.  Note that you do _not_ need a filesystem on your swap
partition.

When you are finished, click on the "Done" button and choose "Quit" from
the "File" menu to exit Mkfs.

**** Installing the files

Before using the Installer, it is probably a good idea to increase its
memory allocation.  Select the Installer icon by clicking on it and choose
"Get Info" from the File menu.  Increase both the Minimum and Preferred
sizes to as much as you can spare.

Double-click on the Installer icon to start it up.  The Installer will
present the same SCSI ID menu that Mkfs did.  Select the same SCSI ID that
you did for Mkfs--i.e., the one you are installing onto. 

If you are installing onto a single root partition, proceed to the
"Installation of base files" section, below.

	If you have not created filesystems for the root, usr, and
	any other filesystems, go back to "Preparing the filesystem(s),"
	above.

	When you started the Installer, it mounted your root partition.
	Just before it printed, "Mounting partition 'A' as /," it printed
	lines like:
		sd1 at scsi ID 5.
	This means that the device for scsi ID 5 is sd1.  The partitions
	are signified by a trailing letter.  For instance, sd1a would be
	the root partition of the second scsi disk in the chain, and sd0g
	would be the first Usr partition on the first scsi disk.

	You will need to know the proper device to mount the remaining
	partition(s) by hand:

		* Select "Build Devices" from the "File" menu.

		* Select "Mini Shell" from the "File" menu.

		* You can use the 'disklabel' command to get a listing of
		  the available partitions and their types and sizes.

		* Mount the filesystems you wish with the command:
			mount device path
		  For example, if you wish to mount a usr partition from
		  the first scsi disk, sd0, on /usr, you would type:
			mount /dev/sd0g /usr

		* Type "fstab force" to create a proper /etc/fstab file

		* Type "quit" after you have mounted all the filesystems.

Installation of base files:

	Select the "Install" menu item from the "File" menu and install
	base.tgz, etc.tgz, netbsd.tgz, and any other sets you wish to
	install	at this time (see the contents section for information
	about what's in each set).  The Installer will print out the
	filename of each file as it is installed, and will take quite some 
	time to install everything (the base package alone can take over an
	hour on a slow hard drive).

	As is the case with Mkfs, this is not a particularly well-behaved
	Macintosh application and the machine will be completely tied up
	while the installation takes place.

	At some point after installing the base set, select the "Build
	Devices" option from the "File" menu if you have not already done
	so.  This will create a bunch of device nodes for you and will
	create your initial /etc/fstab.  The Installer program also has an
	option to give you a mini-shell.  Do not use this unless you are
	sure know what you are doing.

	When you are finished installing all of the sets you wish to
	install, exit the Installer by choosing "Quit" from the "File" menu.
	
**** Booting the system

Prior to attempting to boot NetBSD/mac68k, please verify that all of
the following are true:

	1) 32-bit addressing is enabled[*] in the Memory control panel;

	2) All forms of virtual memory are disabled (the Memory control
	   panel, RAM Doubler, or other software-based memory enhancement
	   products); and

	3) Your system is in B&W mode (1-bit color or grayscale) as shown
	   by the Monitors control panel.  You may choose to have the 
	   Booter do this for you automatically by selecting the appropriate
	   check box and radio button in the "Monitors" dialog on the
	   "Options" menu.

It is probably best to boot your machine with all extensions turned
off[*].  You can do this by booting into MacOS with the SHIFT key held
down.  You may have to restart your Macintosh for changes to take effect
before proceeding.  

[* NOTE:  If you have an older II-class system (including the II, IIx, IIcx,
and SE/30), it is necessary to install Connectix's MODE32 to work around
ROM issues which prevent you from enabling 32-bit addressing.  Please see
<http://www.netbsd.org/Ports/mac68k/faq/> for more information.]

Double-click on the NetBSD/mac68k Booter icon to start the application.
Select "Booting" from the "Options" menu.  Check that all of the items in
the resulting dialog look sane--especially the SCSI ID.  If not, correct
them to your preference (the SCSI ID should be the only thing you need to
change).  When you are satisfied with your choices, try booting NetBSD by
selecting "Boot Now" from the "Options" menu.

If you wish to save your preferences, choose "Save Options" from the
"File" menu before Booting (your preferences will not be saved if you
forget to do this).

If the system does not come up, send mail to scottr@netbsd.org describing
your software, your hardware, and as complete a description of the
problem as you can.

If the system does come up, congratulations, you have successfully
installed NetBSD _VER.  When you first boot into NetBSD, it will
automatically drop you into single-user mode with the root filesystem
mounted read-write.  The system will ask you to choose a shell.  Simply hit
return to get to a prompt.  If you are asked for a terminal type, respond
with 'vt220' and hit return.  At this point, you need to configure at least
one file in the /etc directory.  Change to the /etc directory and take a
look at the /etc/rc.conf file.  Modify it to your tastes, making sure that
you set "rc_configured=YES" so that your changes will be enabled and a
multi-user boot can proceed.  If your /usr directory is on a separate
partition and you do not know how to use 'ed' or 'ex', you will have to
mount your /usr partition to gain access to 'vi'.  Do the following:

mount /usr
export TERM=vt220

You can then edit /etc/rc.conf with 'vi'.  When you have finished, type
'exit' at the prompt to leave the single-user shell and continue with the
multi-user boot.  You should log in as "root" at the login prompt.  There
is no initial password, but if you're using the machine in a networked
environment, you should create yourself an account and protect it and the
"root" account with good passwords.  Please see the adduser(8) man page for
more information on how to add a new user. 

Some of the files in the NetBSD _VER distribution might need to be
tailored for your site.  In particular, if you have installed the X11
distribution sets, you will need to edit the /etc/ld.so.conf file to
look something like:

# add the X shared libraries to the runtime linker search path
/usr/X11R6/lib

Also, don't forget to add /usr/X11R6/bin to your path in your shell's dot
file so that you have access to the X binaries.  Many other files in /etc
will probably need to be modified, as well.  Many of these files are
described in section 5 of the manual pages.  See intro(5) for more
information.  If you are unfamiliar with UN*X-like operating systems or
system administration, it's recommended that you buy a book that discusses
it.  
