	$NetBSD: legal,v 1.7 1998/01/09 18:46:41 perry Exp $	

	This product includes software developed by the Alice Group.

	This product includes software developed by Allen Briggs.

	This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.

	This product includes software developed by Bradley A. Grantham.

	This product includes software developed by Takashi Hamada.

	This product includes software developed by Christian E. Hopps.

	This product includes software developed by Scott Reynolds.

	This product includes software developed by John P. Wittkoski.

Contributions:
-------------

The following people have made contributions of various sorts specifically
for the Macintosh port (in alphabetical order):

	All of the users who have supplied us with good bug reports and
		moral support.
	The Alice Group (Allen K. Briggs, Chris P. Caputo, Michael L. Finch,
		Bradley A. Grantham, and Lawrence A. Kesteloot), without
		whom there would be no NetBSD port for the Macintosh.
	Steven R. Allen for keeping our snapshot distributions up-to-date.
	Stephen C. Brown for maintaining the Installer application.
	Denton Gentry and Yanagisawa Takeshi for their work on the SONIC
		Ethernet driver.
	Paul Goyette, Taras Ivanenko, Ken Nakata, and Michael R. Zucca
		for invaluable work towards supporting color X.
	Takashi Hamada and John Wittkoski beating the direct ADB hardware
		driver into submission.
	David Huang for getting MACE Ethernet and basic DMA working on the
		AV Macs. 
	Scott Jann for acquiring a IIx and a IIci, used for building and
		testing release sets.
	Scott Kaplan for lending his IIci and Kensington Turbo Mouse for
		IIci/IIsi banked memory and internal video as well as
		non-Apple ADB devices.
	Noah M. Kieserman for lending a PowerBook 520C for tracking
		down several bugs on that platform.
	Markus Krummenacker for monetary donations.
	Glan Lalonde for an invaluable IIci page table dump.
	Bob Nestor for (unofficially) maintaining the Mkfs utility,
		and providing a lot of useful information about the ROM
		vectors used by different systems.
	Brad Parker for serial and Ethernet drivers/improvements.
	Brian R. Gaeke and Nigel Pearson for tweaking and polishing the
		Booter application.
	Scott Redman for lending Brad Grantham a PowerBook 160.
	Craig Ruff for assembling an '030 "pmove ttx" instruction.
	Brad Salai for lending an Ethernet card to help resolve
		interrupt conflicts.
	Larry Samuels for monetary donations.
	Peter Siebold for lending his IIvx in support of ADB and IIvx
		internal video.
	Glen Stewart for lending a Carrera040 accelerator which, while
		still unsupported, helped to track down memory management
		bugs for '030-based machines.
	Bill Studenmund for providing a stable front end to the machine-
		independent serial driver.
	Schuyler Stultz for the loan of his Macintosh II when we
		desperately needed another machine on which to compile
		and test during the '93 Xmas vacation.
	Tenon Intersystems for monetary donations, MachTen, and Brad's
		access to several machines and documentation after hours.
	Virginia Tech English Department for loan of a IIci w/ NuBus
		video and 32MB of RAM--the first IIci to run NetBSD/Mac68k.
	Colin Wood for maintaining a host of NetBSD/mac68k documentation,
		including the FAQ, Meta-FAQ, and OS Info documents.
